# zup
A Simple Script for Managing Zig Toolchains

## Installing `zup`
Clone the repository and navigate to the top directory.

Run `./configure --help` to see configuration options.

### Default Installation
To install `zup` in the `/usr/local/bin` directory, just do:

```none
./configure
make install
```

Some users may need to run `sudo make` instead of `make` to gain write permissions for the default directory.

The `make` and `make all` commands have the same effect as `make install`.

### Installation in a Custom Location
The `--exec_prefix` option sets the prefix for executable directories. To install `zup` in the user's home `bin` directory do:

```none
./configure --exec_prefix=~
make install
```

Alternatively the `--bindir` option can be used to directly set the user executable directory:

```none
./configure --bindir=~/bin
make install
```

### Removing `zup`
`zup` can be removed by navigating back to the top directory of the repository and running `make uninstall`, or possibly `sudo make uninstall`.

Use `make distclean` to remove the `Makefile` and `config.status` files generated by the `configure` script.

> [!NOTE]
> After installation, running `make distclean` cancels the ability to remove `zup` by calling `make uninstall`. In this event the `zup` executable must be deleted manually.

## Using `zup`

```none
$ zup
zup version 0.2.0

Usage:
zup [command]

Commands:
<version> ... Set active Zig toolchain
list      ... Show available Zig toolchains
help      ... Show this help screen
```

Zup creates the `.zup` directory in the user's home directory if it doesn't already exist.

Zig tarballs should be unpacked in the `.zup` directory. Run `zup list` to show all available toolchains found in the `.zup` directory.

```none
$ zup list
available Zig toolchains:
  0.15.0-dev.847+850655f06
> 0.14.1 <
```

Run `zup <version>` to set the global Zig version. The version number must begin with the form `a.b.c` which may be optionally followed by information to identify development versions. Run `zig version` to see the current Zig toolchain version.

```none
$ zig version
0.14.1
$ zup list
available Zig toolchains:
  0.15.0-dev.847+850655f06
> 0.14.1 <
$ zup 0.15.0
$ zup list
available Zig toolchains:
> 0.15.0-dev.847+850655f06 <
  0.14.1
$ zig version
0.15.0-dev.847+850655f06
```

Zup maintains a symbolic link to the current global Zig toolchain in the `bin` directory which was selected during configuration. By default this is the `/usr/local/bin` directory, but the `--bindir` option can be used to select another directory.
